[Large Language Models (LLMs) are out in the wild](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/open_llm_leaderboard). These open foundation models stir up community interest and fear around how they might be used, for both good and bad ends. Given such context, this short-essay briefly discuss positive and negative aspects of sharing NLP models, based on [Kapoor et al's _On the Societal Impact of Open Source Foundation Models_](https://crfm.stanford.edu/open-fms/paper.pdf). At last, I introduce my personal analysis on this issue.

Let's start by recalling the good results of open models. First of all, since ML models increasingly influence society, closed  foundation models' behaviour is unilaterally determined by developers and stakeholders. Open foundation models, on the other hand, allow for greater diversity in defining what model behavior is acceptable. Moreover, broader access to open models enables inclusion in science and increasing innovation. From the society standpoint, the open weights makes up for some transparency and accountability. At last, more diverse downstream model behaviours reduce the danger of market concentration that yield to systemic risk due to widespread dependence on a single (or few) technology(ies).

But life is not a bed of roses. Sharing models brings up their issues as well. For an example of misuse, the human-like text generation capability of these systems can be used as a tool for spear-phishing attacks ([Hazell, 2023](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06972v1.pdf)). Ethics is also a concern. Once Generative AI can produce high-quality written and visual content, how do we assign responsability for these outputs ([Mann, 2024](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-023-00653-1))?

I believe the gains of having open-source models outweigh the risks. And this happens for a simple reason: all these concerns would be badly shaped had we not seen what they can do from so many perspectives. Moreover, ignoring all the good aspects of open-source weights, I think we should pursue this because only by sharing with society the possibilities we will find out how to address the misuses.